# Inverse RL

## Early

* *Inverse Reinforcement Learning* (2000)

The first work of inverse reinforcement learning (IRL). It assumes policy optimality, and solves reward function with linear programming. 

This work first proposes that reward is determined by a linear combination of "features", which is inherited in future work.

* *Apprenticeship Learning via Inverse Reinforcement Learning* (2004)

The final goal of apprenticeship learning is not getting an identical reward function, but a policy that works equally well with the expert.

* *Bayes Inverse Reinforcement Learning* (2008)

This work does not require optimal demonstration to recover reward function; suboptimal ones will do.

## Maximum Entropy

Maximizing the entropy of the distribution over paths subject to the feature constraints from observed data implies that we maximize the likelihood of the observed data under the maximum entropy; See *https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/87442805* for a more detailed introduction. 

See *https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/107998641* for reference.

* *Maximum Entropy Inverse Reinforcement Learning* (2008)

This paper is the founding work of modern inverse reinforcement learning. This paper makes two assumptions:

1) Reward function is a linear combination of some certain features (inherited from Andrew Ng's work in 2000)

2) **The probability distribution of trajectories is proportional to e^r where r is the reward.**

However, I have recurred the experiments and found that the recovery of reward function is not as accurate as one may imagine.   

* *Modeling Interaction via the Principle of Maximum Causal Entropy* (2010)

* *Infinite Time Horizon Maximum Causal Entropy Inverse Reinforcement Learning*

* *Maximum Entropy Deep Inverse Reinforcement Learning* (2010) 

"Deep" is used in this work to extract and combine features instead of handcrafting features and only combining them linearly. 

* *Guided Cost Learning* (2015)

Before this work, a main effort of MEIRL is to *estimate Z* in the denominator of maximum entropy probability distribution (Ziebart's work uses DP; there are also other works such as Laplacian approximation, value function based and sample based approximation).

This work finds a sample distribution and uses importance sampling to estimate Z. It iteratively optimizes both the reward function and the sampling distribution.

The goal of sampling distribution is to minimize the *KL-divergence* between the sampling distribution and the term exp(-reward_\theta(traj))/Z.

* *Generative Adversarial Imitation Learning* (2016) 

A generalization of GAN on imitation learning (note: unlike AIRL, GAIL cannot retrive reward function).

* *LEARNING ROBUST REWARDS WITH ADVERSARIAL INVERSE REINFORCEMENT LEARNING* (ICLR 18')

See MAAIRL.pptx in the github for details. Compared to GAIL, AIRL has the ability to retrieve reward function.

* *Adversarial Imitation via Variational Inverse Reinforcement Learning* (ICLR 19') 

The most important notion of this work is *empowerment*. Empowerment is I(s',a|s) where I represents mutual information; it describes the possiblity of agent "influencing its future".

The researcher suggests that by adding this regularizer, we can prevent agent from overfitting onto demonstration policy.

* *A Connection Between Generative Adversarial Networks, Inverse Reinforcement Learning, and Energy-Based Models*

Highly recommending this paper. Intuitively, GAN trains a generator which generates data (which could be *sequences*) that a discriminator (classifier) cannot tell from a particular distribution, which, if substituting the "sequence" to "trajectory", is exactly what imitation learning / IRL does; 

and energy-based models (with Boltzmann distribution) assign a sample with an energy value that has the same form with MEIRL. Moreover, the 

## Multi-agent

* *MAGAIL：Multi-Agent Generative Adversarial Imitation Learning* (2018)

* *Multi-Agent Adversarial Inverse Reinforcement Learning* (ICML 19')

See MAAIRL.pptx in the github for details. This paper proposes a new solution concept called **logistic stochastic best response equilibrium** (LSBRE).

MAGAIL is MaxEnt RL + Nash Equilibrium; MAAIRL is MaxEnt RL + LSBRE.

* *Competitive Multi-agent Inverse Reinforcement Learning with Sub-optimal Demonstrations* (2018)

* *Asynchronous Multi-Agent Generative Adversarial Imitation Learning* (2019)